most of earth's human and animal
populations have been annihilated by
sightless extraterrestrial creatures
the creatures which attack anything that
makes noise
have hypersensitive hearing and
indestructible armored skin
evelyn abbott her husband lee their deaf
daughter regan
and sons marcus and beau silently
scavenge for supplies in a deserted town
while out in the open the family
communicates with sign language
beau is drawn to a battery-powered space
shuttle toy
but lee takes it away due to the noise
it would make regan returns the toy to
bow who also takes the batteries that
her father removed from it
bow activates the toy when the family is
walking home and crossing a bridge
giving away his location to a nearby
creature which kills him before lee can
save him
over a year later regan struggles with
guilt over her brother's death
evelyn enters the final stages of
pregnancy and lee fruitlessly tries to
make radio contact with the outside
world
lee attempts to upgrade regan's cochlear
implant with scavenged miniature
amplifiers to restore her hearing
but the devices are ineffective later
lee takes marcus to a nearby river with
a large waterfall to teach him to fish
while regan visits bose memorial lee
explains to marcus that they are safe
from the creatures in the presence of
louder and constant sounds
as the sounds mask over their voices and
do not attract creatures
marcus then reveals that regan blames
herself for beau's death
and needs her father to tell her he
still loves her alone at the house
evelyn goes into labor while making her
way to their basement
she steps on an exposed nail in pain she
accidentally drops a glass picture frame
and alerts a nearby creature
evelyn flips a switch that changes the
exterior house lights to red
as a danger signal to the others and
struggles to remain silent
during her contractions arriving at the
farm and seeing the lights
lee instructs marcus to set off
fireworks as a diversion
arriving at the house lee finds evelyn
hiding in the bathroom with their
newborn son
and along with evelyn makes his way to
their improvised soundproof basement
lee leaves to find the other children
promising evelyn he will protect them
evelyn then falls asleep but soon wakes
to discover that the barn basement is
flooded with water from a broken pipe
and that a creature has found its way
inside the basement hideaway
regan hurrying back to the farm takes
refuge atop a grain silo with marcus
lighting a fire to alert their father of
their whereabouts however
they run out of lighter fluid and the
fire dies before they can attract lee's
attention
a hatch door then suddenly gives way and
marcus falls into the silo
the sound of the door falling distracts
the creature that was stalking evelyn
and it targets marcus and regan regan
who has jumped in after marcus
sinks into the corn and nearly
suffocates but marcus saves her
regan's cochlear implant reacts to the
proximity of the creature by emitting a
high frequency sound that drives it away
the children proceed to escape from the
silo and reunite with their father
the creature returns attacking and
wounding lee while marcus and regan hide
in a pickup truck
after seeing his father wounded marcus
shouts impulsively
attracting the creature to the truck lee
signs to regan that he loves her and
always has
before yelling to draw the creature away
from his children the creature
hearing lee's voice attacks and kills
him regan and marcus roll the truck down
a hill to escape
and reunite with evelyn and the baby at
the farmhouse the four retreat to the
house's basement
when the creature returns regan who
realizes that the sound made by the
implant distresses the creature
switches the device back on and places
it on a nearby microphone
amplifying the feedback painfully
disoriented the creature exposes the
flesh beneath its armored head
allowing evelyn to fatally shoot it with
a shotgun the family views a security
camera monitor
showing two creatures attracted by the
noise of the shotgun blast approaching
the house
with their newly acquired knowledge of
the creature's weakness the members of
the family arm themselves and prepare
to fight back